.\" Copyright (c) 2014 the Sanzang Utils authors
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH SZU\-SS 1 2014 sanzang-utils "Sanzang Utilities"
.SH NAME
szu\-ss \- table-based string substitution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B szu\-ss
[options] table_file [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a program for making fixed string substitutions using a two-column
translation table file. After reading the input text, each source term is
translated into its translated into its equivalent translation term. Three
types of substitutions are made for each term: with normal capitalization,
converted to lowercase, and converted to uppercase. Substitutions will also be
made if the source term only matches part of the word, so this tool should be
used with caution. If no input file is specified, text is read from the
standard input (stdin). Output is written to the standard output (stdout).
.PP
For more details on translation table formatting and development, please refer
to the tutorial, as well as the manual page for szu\-t.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print usage information and then exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
include information useful for debugging
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on normal termination, and 1 on error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors will print a message to the standard error stream (stderr). To enable
stack traces for debugging, enable the \*(lqverbose\*(rq option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B $ szu\-ss mytable < infile > outfile
.PP
Read text from \fIinfile\fR, make substitutions based on \fImytable\fR, and
write the output text to \fIoutfile\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR szu\-ed (1),
.BR szu\-t (1),
.SH BUGS
Please contact the author if any bugs are found, or file a bug report with the
project. Incomplete or inaccurate documentation should be treated as a bug.
.SH AUTHOR
yaoguai <http://lapislazulitexts.com/sanzang>
