.\" Copyright (c) 2014 the Sanzang Utils authors
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH SZU\-R 1 2014 sanzang-utils "Sanzang Utilities"
.SH NAME
szu\-r \- reformat CJK text for translation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B szu\-r
[options] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool transforms Chinese, Japanese, or Korean (CJK) text into lines in
which words are not broken apart. The utility does this by collapsing all line
breaks, and then reformatting the text based on horizontal spacing and
punctuation. If no input file is specified, then text is read from the standard
input stream (stdin). Output text is written to the standard output (stdout).
.PP
Reformatting CJK text is an important step before attempting machine
translation on it. This program may be used to preprocess text prior to its
translation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print usage information and then exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
include information useful for debugging
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on normal termination, and 1 on error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors will print a message to the standard error stream. To enable stack
traces for debugging, enable the \*(lqverbose\*(rq option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B
$ szu\-r infile > outfile
.PP
Read text from one file, reformat it, and write it to another file.
.PP
.B
$ cat mytext | szu\-r | szu\-t mytable
.PP
Use the program as a text filter for translation preprocessing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR szu\-t (1)
.SH BUGS
Please contact the author if any bugs are found, or file a bug report with the
project. Incomplete or inaccurate documentation should be treated as a bug.
.SH AUTHOR
yaoguai <http://lapislazulitexts.com/sanzang>
