Sanzang Utils
=============

**Website:** http://lapislazulitexts.com/sanzang
**GitHub:** https://github.com/yaoguai/sanzang-utils

The Sanzang Utilities are a small collection of programs for translating from
Chinese, Japanese, and Korean (the CJK languages). Unlike most other machine
translation systems, this system is useful even for ancient and otherwise
difficult texts. Due to its origins in translating texts from the Chinese
Buddhist canon, this translation system is called Sanzang (三藏), a literal
translation of the Sanskrit word "Tripitaka," which is a general term for the
Buddhist canon.

The programs included in Sanzang Utils can be used to generate rough but useful
translations that closely follow the source text. For example::

    $ echo "你好，世界！" | szu-t sztab
    1.1|你好，世界！
    1.2| nǐhǎo , shìjiè !
    1.3| hello , world !

Anyone can learn how to use Sanzang Utils, and use these programs to read and
analyze texts. Unlike most other systems, Sanzang is small and approachable.
You are able to easily develop your own translation rules and then apply them
to generate useful translations.

Sanzang Utils includes the following programs:

* szu-ed (1) - Command-based translation table editor
* szu-r (1) - Preprocessor for reformatting CJK text
* szu-t (1) - The main translation program
* szu-ss (1) - Case-sensitive string substitutions

These are all written in Python 3 and available under the MIT License.

Installation
------------

To run these programs, Python 3.x is required. Installation on a Unix-like
platform is advised, but Windows is possible too. If you must use Windows, then
Cygwin is the best environment for these programs.

To install these programs the "Python way," you can use setup.py::

    # python3 setup.py install

Otherwise, you could do it the "Unix way" by using the included makefile. If
you install with the makefile, you can also uninstall easily with the makefile.
The choice of which installation method to use is just a personal preference.

Documentation
-------------

After installing Sanzang Utils, you may want to read the introduction and the
tutorial. The introduction introduces you to the core concepts and rationale
behind the system. The tutorial gives practical instruction on exactly how to
use each component, how they relate to one another, and how you can develop
your own translation tables.

* *Sanzang Introduction* <http://lapislazulitexts.com/articles/sanzang_intro>
* *Sanzang Utils Tutorial* <http://lapislazulitexts.com/articles/szu_tutorial>

In addition to the introduction and tutorial, each program also includes a
tradition Unix manual page that can be used for a short summary and reference.

Versions and Updates
--------------------

Versions of Sanzang Utils follow the scheme N.N.N, indicating the major
version, minor version, and the patch number. The patch number is incremented
for sets of small updates or bug fixes, the minor number indicates some new
feature or new behavior, and the major number indicates a big change or new and
incompatible behavior.

To find out what new fixes and features are available with each new version,
you can check the NEWS file, which lists all notable changes according to the
version number and date.
